# COVID19-Investigation-and-Prediction-
The objective of this paper is to conduct a comparative study on the performance of different machine learning models in forecasting the number of COVID-19 confirmed cases in the United States.


The COVID-19 virus has affected over four million people in the world. In the U.S. alone, the number of positive cases have exceeded one million, making it the most affected country. There is clear urgency to predict and ultimately decrease the spread of this infectious disease. Therefore, this project was motivated to test and determine various machine learning models that can accurately predict the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the U.S. using available time-series data. COVID-19 data was coupled with state demographic data to investigate the distribution of cases and potential correlations between demographic features. Concerning the four machine learning models tested, it was hypothesized that LSTM and XGBoost would result in the lowest errors due to the complexity and power of these models, followed by SVR and linear regression. However, linear regression and SVR had the best performance in this study which demonstrates the importance of testing simpler models and only adding complexity if the data requires it. We note that LSTM’s low performance was most likely due to the size of the training dataset available at the time of this research as deep learning requires a vast amount of data. Additionally, each model’s accuracy improved after implementing time-series preprocessing techniques of power transformations, normalization, and the overall restructuring of the time-series problem to a supervised machine learning problem using lagged values. This research can be furthered by predicting the number of deaths and recoveries as well as extending the models by integrating healthcare capacity and social restrictions in order to increase accuracy or to forecast infection, death, and recovery rates for future dates.

